W-19473121-hsa-component-partial-kt (#322)
mulesoft/docs-hosting: hybrid-standalone/modules/ROOT/pages/managing-schedulers-hybrid.adoc

== Overview

Runtime Manager provides comprehensive scheduler management capabilities for applications deployed to hybrid standalone instances, enabling you to:

* Control scheduler lifecycle operations (enable, disable, run immediately)
* Modify scheduling frequencies and execution patterns in real-time
* Configure timezone settings for cron-based schedulers
* Monitor scheduler execution status and performance
* Manage multiple schedulers across application flows simultaneously

**Scheduler Management Scope**

Scheduler management is available for applications deployed to hybrid standalone instances (individual servers, server groups, and clusters). This feature provides runtime control over Scheduler components defined in your Mule application flows.

**Scheduler Identification**

Runtime Manager identifies each Scheduler component using the naming convention `polling://{flow_name}`, where `{flow_name}` represents the name of the flow containing the Scheduler element.

[IMPORTANT]
====

> Timezone configuration for cron schedulers is available only for hybrid standalone deployments. CloudHub and Government Cloud deployments do not support custom timezone settings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Timezone configuration for cron schedulers is available only for hybrid standalone deployments. CloudHub and Government Cloud deployments don't support custom timezone settings.
```

====

== Use Cases

Schedule management is useful in these contexts:

* You want to change the schedulers in your application at runtime without redeploying.

> * You want to disable a scheduled job while one of the applications you are connecting to is undergoing maintenance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You want to disable a scheduled job while one of the applications you're connecting to is undergoing maintenance.
```

* You want runtime visibility into the schedulers in your application.

== Considerations and Limitations

When using the *Schedulers* tab, consider this:

* If a scheduled job isn't triggered because the application isn't running,
Runtime Manager triggers the job as soon as the application restarts.
* The scheduler reads the job configuration every time it runs.
+
To apply your changes immediately, run your jobs manually after updating the schedule.

== Scheduler Management Operations

Manage scheduler configurations and runtime behavior through Runtime Manager's Schedulers interface for applications deployed to hybrid standalone instances.

=== Prerequisites

> Before managing schedulers, ensure your application deployment meets these requirements:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before managing schedulers, make sure that your application deployment meets these requirements:
```

> * Application contains one or more Scheduler components defined in Mule flows

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Your application contains one or more Scheduler components defined in Mule flows
```

> * Application is successfully deployed to hybrid standalone instances (servers, server groups, or clusters)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Your application is successfully deployed to hybrid standalone instances (servers, server groups, or clusters)
```

> * User account has appropriate application management permissions in Runtime Manager

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Your user account has appropriate application management permissions in Runtime Manager
```

.The arrow shows the *Scheduler* component in the Anypoint Studio canvas.
image::hybrid-scheduler-studio.png[Scheduler component in the Anypoint Studio canvas]

=== Access Scheduler Management

> Navigate to the scheduler management interface for your deployed application:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Go to the scheduler management interface for your deployed application:
```

> . In Runtime Manager, click *Applications* in the navigation pane

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In Runtime Manager, click *Applications* in the navigation pane.
```

> . Select your deployed application from the applications list

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Select your deployed application from the applications list.
```

> . Click the *Schedulers* tab to access scheduler management controls

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Click the *Schedulers* tab to access scheduler management controls.
```

> 

Reviewer: We should add the period to procedural steps, as they are complete sentences.

.The screenshot shows (*1*) the *Schedulers* option and (*2*) the checkbox on the *Schedulers* page.
image::hybrid-scheduler-rtm.png[Schedulers option and checkbox on the Schedulers page]

**Scheduler Display Information**

* **Name**: Shows the flow name containing each Scheduler element
* **Status**: Displays current state (enabled/disabled) for each scheduler
* **Schedule**: Lists schedulers in the order they appear in your application

.The screenshot shows (*1*) the checkbox, (*2*) the *Disable* button, and (*3*) the schedule in the details pane.
image::hybrid-scheduler-rtm-detail.png[Checkbox, Disable button, and schedule in the details pane]

=== Scheduler Configuration Operations

**Enable/Disable Schedulers**

> 

Reviewer: If this a heading? If so, check if you can change it to a heading 4.  We should use bold only for UI elements.

Control scheduler execution state through bulk or individual operations:

. **Bulk Operations**: Select multiple scheduler checkboxes and click *Enable* or *Disable*
. **Individual Control**: Select a single scheduler checkbox to modify its state
. **Status Verification**: Confirm scheduler state changes in the status indicators

**Cron Scheduler Configuration**

Modify cron-based scheduler settings for complex scheduling patterns:

. Select a single cron scheduler checkbox
. Update schedule configuration in the details pane:
   * **Cron Expression**: Define minute, hour, day, month, and day-of-week patterns
   * **Timezone**: Configure timezone for execution (hybrid standalone only)

>    * **Start Time**: Specify when the scheduler should begin execution

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * **Start Time**: Set the execution start time.
```

.The arrow shows the cron schedule configuration in the details pane.
image::hybrid-scheduler-cron.png[Schedule configuration in the details pane]

**Fixed-Frequency Scheduler Configuration**

Adjust fixed-frequency scheduler settings for regular interval execution:

. Select a single fixed-frequency scheduler checkbox
. Update schedule configuration in the details pane:
   * **Frequency**: Set the execution interval (seconds, minutes, hours)

>    * **Frequency Units**: Choose the time unit for the frequency value

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * **Frequency Units**: Select the time unit for the frequency value.
```
